In Pathway number two, the user authenticates and the authentication filter processes their credentials
and it sends back a JWT token if their credentials are correct.
Which leads us to pathway number three.
This pathway validates a client's JWT token before it can authorize them to use any of our services.
So assuming that a user has already been logged in, they were granted a JWT token and they're going
to use that token as evidence that they've been authenticated.
Our job is to make sure that the token they're giving us is valid.
It hasn't been tampered with.
So a client is going to make a request to, let's say, retrieve a student with an ID of one.
And no matter what, the request is going to start off in the exception handling filter.
And it needs to start there because we want to catch any runtime exceptions that get thrown in subsequent
filters.
So the request is next.
Going to go to the authentication filter, but the authentication filters is attempt authentication
method is not going to get invoked because we're not authenticating.
So it's just going to go straight to the filter that follows, which is going to be the JWT authorization
filter.
The purpose of this filter is to authorize the client's request if and only if the token that they give
us is actually valid.
We're going to verify the signature inside the token and see if it's actually valid.
So the API takes this token and it says, okay, this is the header, this is the payload, and only
the API knows the secret.
And now it's going to use the same algorithm as before to produce a test signature.
However, will it produce the same signature as the one that's being provided?
If it does, then it's obvious that they're using a valid token that we gave them.
If it doesn't produce the same signature.
Then the token that they're giving us is not a valid.
Now let's assume that the validation process works.
We need to set the authentication object on the security context holder.
The security context holder is where spring security stores the details of who is authenticated.
Remember, the principle identifies the user credentials is usually the password and authorities we
haven't really dealt with.
Once we do that, once we set the authentication object, the user has been authenticated.
Now spring security will authorize their request in this case in order to retrieve a student.
So go to your filter folder and inside of JWT authorization filter.
Once again we're going to inherit from the abstract class once per request filter.
Once per request filter is normally used in spring security because well as it says, it guarantees
a single execution per request.
And so what we're going to do is we will override DU Filter internal.
And conveniently, when the request reaches here, this has already been typed consent to a HTTP servlet
request.
And before I forget, let me add this filter to my filter chain.
So we'll go to the security config.
And after we run the authentication filter, we're going to run the authorization filter.
So we'll say add filter after the last filter.
And our filter chain is going to be a new instance of JWT authorization filter and it's going to come
after.
The authentication filter.
All right.
So let's just say a user makes a request to access one of the courses, then it's going to go through
the exception handler filter first.
All that's going to do is trigger the next filter in the filter chain.
So the next filter is going to be the authentication filter because we're not actually authenticating.
This will never get invoked.
Let's just say that you happen to have a do filter right here.
This will actually get invoked.
It's the attempt authentication method that does not get called.
Please do not put a do filter over here.
It's going to mess up your authentication mechanism.
So again, just one thing to keep in mind.
So it's going to start at the exception handler filter.
Go here, nothing here is going to get called.
Then it's going to go to the JWT authorization filter where we have to validate their JWT token.
All right, I went a bit off course, but we just added this to our filter chain.
The next step is to verify the JWT that is inside their request.
Let me fix this up because it's going to ruin my indentation.
All right.
Inside the request, we know that it's going to have a header that's authorization.
And what follows the header is going to be bearer, followed by the JWT token.
What we're going to do is say string token.
Well, first we'll say string bearer token is equal to request dot get header authorization.
So this is going to return as bearer.
JWT.
But we just want the token.
We want to get rid of this bearer string, which conveniently happens to match one of our constants.
So over here we can say, Oh, sorry, wrong class.
Over here we can say string token is equal to barrier token replace.
And we're going to replace.
The bearer text.
Sorry.
Apparently, I can't spell security.
Constance.
We're going to replace the bearer string with nothing.
So now this equals our JWT token directly.
We could have done this in a single step, but I'm trying to make the code as descriptive as possible
so that it's clear to you.
All right, now that we have the token, we need to verify it and make sure that the token that they're
sending us is actually valid.
Well, there is a very, very handy function that we can extract from the JWT class.
We can say JWT require.
And here what we can do is specify the algorithm that we want to use to validate the signature of the
JWT token.
It has to be the exact same algorithm that was originally used to produce the JWT.
So we can go back over here the authentication filter and copy this over.
You know what?
Instead of saying import static over here, I bet I could just say algorithm dot the following.
All right, you know what?
For the sake of consistency, let me fix it up over here as well.
No need to import it as follows.
Okay.
So we're going to verify the incoming JWT token using the same algorithm and the same secret that we've
been using to sign the original tokens to begin with.
And the required method returns a verification builder.
So here we have to say dot build and I'll do this on a new line.
Now we can say verify.
We can verify the token in question.
And that's pretty much it.
Now, here's the thing.
The client, they don't know what the secret is.
All they're doing is sending us a token.
And then we take its header, we take its body and reassign it using the same algorithm that we would
have used before.
If the test signature matches what the client sent us, then we know they sent us a valid token.
Now.
If everything works out and no exceptions are thrown by the verify function, then this is going to
return a decoded JWT from which we can actually extract the subject.
So here I can say get subject which conveniently we know is going to store the username of our client.
So if we get to here, exceptions have not been thrown.
Their token has been verified.
They're good.
The final step, as this diagram shows, is to set the authentication object on the security context
holder.
The security context holder is where spring security stores the details of who is authenticated.
We can create an authentication object as follows We've done it countless times before.
Authentication.
Am I importing the right thing?
I'm not importing the right thing.
You have to be careful with what you import.
Authentication or Gadot Spring Framework much better authentication.
Authentication is equal to a new username password.
Authentication token, you'll remember that principal identifies the user.
So what I'm going to do is say string user is equal to whatever subject we get back from the decoded
JWT.
And the user itself is going to be identified by the user name because we know that's what the subject
is going to equal.
And credentials is most often a password.
Nothing to put here.
We're going to say no.
Our JWT token, we know, is not going to contain any sensitive data about the client.
All right.
And now we can say security context holder.
Dot get context set and here we can set the authentication object.
Now, I want to emphasize that it doesn't really matter how you populate the security context folder.
If it contains a value, any value than that is the current authenticated user.
And after we have indicated a successful authentication, we can now authorize the user to perform the
action that they wanted to perform so we can finalize our code by saying.
Filter.
Chain dot do filter.
But you might be wondering, Hey, Ryan, this is kind of odd.
Our JWT authorization filter is the last filter in our filter chain.
So why are we saying change to filter?
Well, remember, you have to guide your request every step of the way.
Once we finish validating the JWT token, then we tell the request.
Okay, go to the next filter.
But because this is the last filter in our filter chain.
Then it's just going to end up performing the operation that they requested.
And that's really it.
We're almost done.
We're going to see some bugs in just a second.
So let me just run the application and debug mode.
And for the sake of it, I'm going to put breakpoints on every single filter.
Um, we'll put some in the authentication filter as well.
No need here.
I just put it in the tri block and let's do this.
We're so close to being done.
All right.
Let's register.
It starts at the exception handler filter.
That's expected.
Uh, probably wouldn't have seen it, but it goes to the authentication filter.
But nothing here is going to get invoked because they're not authenticating.
But then it's going to go to the next filter, the JWT authorization filter.
But how do we stop that from happening when the user signs up?
It needs to follow pathway number one.
There is no need for them to pass in a JWT.
The register method should be publicly available to anybody.
And if you were to keep going, it would fail.
And this is a problem because now our users have no way of signing up.
Well, fear not.
There is always a solution.
So here, what we have to say is.
You know what?
And what I'm going to do is rename this to header because that makes a lot more sense.
Were retrieving the value from the authorisation header which is bearer JWT.
I'll remove this comment.
I'm assuming you're comfortable.
What's going on?
So now we can say.
If the header equals null.
And why am I checking for a null header?
Because if the user is just signing up then they do not need to pass in an authorization header, which
means us trying to get the header of authorization when they register.
We know it's going to be null.
But let's be even more specific if the header.
Dart starts with if it's not bearer.
So we'll go to security constants.
Dot barer if it doesn't start with this.
Then we know there is no JWT token to validate.
There is nothing to do over here.
Just go to the next filter chain.
Sorry.
Filter.
Chain.
Do filter.
And again, because the authorization filter is the last filter in the filter chain, all that's going
to do is cause the resource at the end of the chain to be invoked.
In this case, it's the registration method.
All right, let's try this out now.
We should have fixed our bug.
There are a few more bugs, but we'll do it one by one.
All right, we'll register.
Goes to the exception handling filter.
Goes here.
And because while both of these conditions are correct, it's just going to call filter change to filter
because this is the last filter in our security filter chain.
It's just going to end up invoking the resource that thereafter.
Beautiful.
So that's going to sign the user up.
And I screwed up because we're going to need a return keyword right here.
My bad guys, that was an oversight on my part.
After it processes the operation, we don't want it to keep going.
Right.
This is why it's important to trace the runtime step by step.
If I had just run this, I would have been thinking, Oh, man, what the heck happened?
But when you trace it step by step, it's very clear the silly mistakes that you make.
Anyways, thank you for coming to my TEDx Talk.
Now I'm going to sign up once again and we will perform the operation.
The return keyword gets invoked and we are done.
All right, so now we have authenticated a user.
Let's go to the H to console and make sure everything is going well.
Oh.
Trying to access the fps to console is also going to trigger the security filter chain.
Let me just skip all the breakpoints.
All right.
Because, you know, you're still making a get request, right?
Everything is good.
Now we're going to try signing in with these credentials.
Let's just do everything correctly.
Ah.
I forgot to put the breakpoints back.
All right.
So now it starts obviously at the exception handler filter.
It's going to attempt authentication.
Going to send the credentials to the authentication manager, where I obviously forgot to put breakpoints,
but whatever, it doesn't matter.
We've already seen this in the past.
Now we get a JWT token and now we can include this token in future requests and present it as evidence
that we have been authenticated.
That way the API can authorize us to use their services.
So what we're going to do actually is go to the user controller.
And we're finally going to set up the logic for the following method.
What I'm going to do is say user service, dot, get user, buy ID, whatever ID that gets passed in.
And we're not going to send back the entire user because we don't want to give them back their password.
We're just going to say Get username.
Well, change that to a string.
But not over here.
And because we did that, we're going to have to repopulate the database.
So let's go create another user.
Well, the same one.
Skipping all this press next will authenticate using the same credentials.
All right.
And now we're going to use this token to make our next request.
I'm going to add another request.
Call it.
Reed user.
It is going to be a get request and we're going to say local host, 80, 80 slash user and we want to
get the user with an ID of one.
Let me go to the user controller.
Yep.
We got the path right.
And in our header we're going to include a token.
The JWT token that we were given.
Make sure to copy it over.
And now let us visualize the runtime.
Re enabling the breakpoints and I'm going to add a breakpoint and the authentication manager and I will
tell you why in a bit.
Looks like I already added it.
And you might be wondering.
Wait, the authentication manager that's not involved in JWT authorization and it isn't.
But let us look at our next bug.
So it starts off in the exception handler filter and no surprise there.
Then it goes to the JWT authorization filter and it's going to extract the authorization header that
we have over here.
The token is going to equal the following token.
And now here it's going to verify if the token is valid.
Of course it is, because we got it from the API, right?
And here is our bug.
So if I press next.
Authenticated equals false.
That's because we're using the wrong constructor.
And I purposefully use the wrong constructor because it's a trap that I fell into in the past.
And I want to warn you of it, because authentication is deemed false, it's actually going to call
upon the authentication manager to try and authenticate, even though we've already done that in pathway
number two.
And unfortunately, we're going to get a null pointer exception or some type of exception.
Anyways.
This could have all been avoided if you just use the correct constructor and the correct one is the
one where you have to pass in a principal credentials and authorities will keep these the same.
And we haven't really assigned any authorities.
There isn't any authority data in the JWT token that would give one user more authority to perform certain
operations over another user.
So we're just going to pass in an empty array list, erase dot as list.
And the reason we want to use this constructor is because behind the scenes, it's going to set the
authenticated field to true.
Now, you might be wondering, hey, Ron, why don't we just say authentication set authenticated to
true.
It doesn't allow you to do it.
You're going to get an illegal argument exception.
You can feel free to try.
You have to use the correct constructor.
I wanted to make this mistake in front of you just because I don't want you to wonder, hey, why am
I getting a no pointer exception and some random part of my code?
Now you know that the authentication manager will get called if authenticated is false, so make sure
to set that up.
And now this authentication object is what we want to pass into our security contacts.
Holder.
All right.
Just a minor, minor thing, but that will have your head scratching for a lot of hours.
Okay.
Let's go back and create a user.
Skipping all this stuff.
I already know it's going to work.
Creates our user.
Now I'm going to log in using the same credentials.
All right.
We get back a JWT token that we're going to use in our next request as evidence that we've been authenticated.
I'll go here.
And what's beautiful about Postman is by saying Bearer Token, putting in my token, it automatically
passes it into my list of headers.
I love Postman.
All right, let's try this out now.
Uh.
Well, it worked, but we missed the best part, actually visualizing the runtime.
So it was able to retrieve a username based on the ID that we passed in.
So well now that the excitement has been spoiled starts at the exception handler and it skipped the
well it didn't actually skip it there's just nothing to be run over here.
We're not authenticating.
So it goes directly to the filter that comes after the authentication filter.
Here we extract the JWT token that they're passing in.
And then we're going to validate the token and make sure that they sent us one.
That is good.
Again, it validates the token by extracting the header, by extracting the payload, and in combination
with the secret key that it and only it knows about it will use this algorithm to produce a test signature
if that signature matches what they sent us.
We know they are using a correct token.
All right.
You can see this time authenticated equals true.
Passing this authentication object into the security context holder.
Now we're implying that the user ran slim three.
They are the ones that are authenticated.
Filter do filter.
Because this is the last filter in our filter chain.
Then what it's going to do is just end up invoking the operation that they're after, which is fine
by ID.
The user with an ID of one to have a username of Rand Slim and we're sending back the username only
for safety purposes.
Well, this stuff's not interesting, but anyways, we get back Rand Slim three.
All right, this is looking very, very good.
Now, what if the user tries to mess around?
Let's just say that they decide to cheat, right?
They go and they try to decode the payload.
Well, they can easily do that.
And then, you know what?
They want the expiration date to last longer than it should, right?
So they'll try to change this value and then they'll end up re encoding this back to base 64 and then
now they have a longer expiration date, right?
Again, this is just a hypothetical scenario that will never happen, but just for the sake of example.
All right.
So they change the payload and now they think, ah, the expiration date is now bigger.
But hold on a second.
The digital signature is a combination of the header and the payload and the secret that they don't
know about by virtue of changing the payload.
The signature should change as well, but they don't know what the secret key is, so they will never
know what the correct signature will be.
So what's going to happen is.
Going to hear.
It's going to get the header, it's going to get the payload.
It has the secret key that no one knows about it will use this algorithm to produce a digital signature.
That test signature is not going to match the signature that they sent us because it will change due
to the payload changing and as a result of them sending an invalid JWT.
This is going to throw a JWT verification exception which we are going to catch inside of our exception
handler filter.
So we'll go over here.
And I don't know why I have this.
No wonder why these have been getting thrown over here and not been getting caught by their one time
exception.
Catch block.
I must have done this by mistake.
So anyways, what should have happened?
You should have gotten back a 400 bad request because it should have been caught over here.
Right?
Let's skip all that.
Yeah.
400 bad requests makes a lot more sense, but we don't want it to send back a 400 bad request.
We wanted to send back a403.
You are forbidden from accessing the resource.
You have not been authorized.
So here we're going to catch.
The JWT.
I think it was a verification exception.
Yeah.
And then I should really make this into a function a.
So here we'll say servlet response dot.
As sea forbidden, I'm guessing.
There you go.
Um.
JWT not valid.
Okay.
Now, if you want to make this cleaner, definitely go ahead and create a function that accepts response
and argument.
This is ultimately an INT as well as a string.
Feel free to make a function, but I'm just going to stick with what we've got if the user passes in
an invalid JWT.
Well, in this case, no matter what they pass in, it's not going to work because there's nobody authenticated.
The database was reset anyway.
Passing in a bad JWT.
You get back 403 forbidden.
JWT not valid.
All right, so all of our bugs are pretty much gone.
But it wouldn't be fun if we didn't go back and start creating some students, some courses and some
grades, and have everything come full circle.
So let us reregister to use our app in the interest of time.
I will disable the breakpoints and we're just going to do this.
So let me go back to my great submission up.
All right.
We've got students, we've got courses.
We are good to go.
I'm going to read The Student Within.
Well, sorry.
First we have to authenticate.
Let's register.
Let's authenticate.
Grab that token.
And now we can include this token and all of our requests to provide evidence that we have been authenticated.
Let's grab the student with an idea of one.
It works beautifully.
Must read all of the courses.
Again, we'll say bearer token.
All right, let's read the course with an idea of one.
Not forgot to add my bearer token.
You know, let's set a variable.
We'll call it token.
And we'll give it the following value.
The scope will be global so that we can use it everywhere.
We will give it the proper JWT.
And now we can just reference token.
Looking good.
Read all the courses.
All right, beautiful.
And that's really it.
I hope you're proud of yourself.
You set up three different pathways, one where the user can just publicly register without going through
any of the security filters or any of the logic inside the security filters, you set up a pathway where
the user can authenticate the authentication.
Manager performs a one way hash on their password, compares it to what we have in the database.
If there is a match, it's going to return an authentication object, which in turn invokes successful
authentication, sending back a JWT token.
And now we can include this token in all of our requests and use it as evidence that we have been authenticated.
And as a result, the API or the authorization filter is going to authorize us to use its services and
invoke all of its operations.
That is all for JWT authentication and authorization.
I really hope you enjoyed this series.